* 0.20 *

The deprecated options (--aggr, --aggr-dumb, and the "delta" keyword in the
--aggr-template) and their configuration variables were removed. The old style
of the configuration file is not supported. An extension is no longer used for
the file set. A new "trim" variable has been added to the configuration file
(represented by --trim in the command line). The script writes its own XMP
tags to the RenRot called group. The default aggregation directory value has
been changed, and the dot delimeter is added to the directory name before a
counter. The documentation has been expanded according to the last changes.


* 0.20rc3 *

The --aggr-dumb option and related configuration variable are deprecated (use
--dry-run instead). The --aggr switcher and 'delta' keyword in the
--aggr-template option are deprecated as well (use --aggr-mode='none',
'delta', or 'template'). The aggregation mode can be defined via the
configuration file. The start and step counter values can be derived by the
--counter-start and --counter-step command line options. A new option
--counter-fixed-field provides a fixed field when a counter is used in a
template.


* 0.20rc2 *

A new style of configuration file was described in README. This style is used
by default. Some useful comments were added to the sample configuration file.
The TODO file was cleaned up. The check for configuration file presence has
been restored.


* 0.20rc1 *

This release presents a new style of the configuration file. The new option,
--user-comment, allows the UserComment tag to be set from the command line.
The --aggr-dir option alias has been removed. The 180 degree may now be used
with the --rotate-angle or --rotate-thumb options, and their parameters are
checked for correctness. Special symbols in filenames should no longer cause
problems. The --work-directory options should work properly now. The
documentation was expanded with an explanation of Orientation tag rotation.


* 0.19.3 *

The bug which occurred when rotating filenames containing special symbols has
been fixed. The empty --extension argument is no longer available. A small
optimization has been implemented. No attempt is made to process absent files.
Smart Orientation tag rotation has been implemented for the rotation process.


* 0.19.2 *

The --rotate and --ext option aliases have been removed, and -aggr-dir has
been moved to deprecated (use --aggr-directory instead). A small optimization
in the aggregation process function has been implemented. Simplified counter
size calculation has been added. The hard-coded 'jpg' extension has been
changed to a lowercased value of the --extension command line option. The
'.ext' form of extension is recognized. The documentation has been expanded
with NEWS (a user-friendly changelog).


* 0.19.1 *

Several bugs were fixed. The thumbnail image did not rotate correctly. The
--file option is obsolete because it's useless (command line arguments without
switchers are also interpreted as files). Directories in aggregation mode use
counter size as well. A new option --exclude provides an exclude list of files
that will not be processed by the script. The documentation has been expanded
with a small description in Russian.


* 0.19 *

Aggregation was implemented (moving files to directories according date/time
patterns). Dynamic counter size (in decimal digits) was implemented. No puts a
single letter for %E, %F, %I, or %W when the tag is absent. Now you may
operate with a fileset instead of the whole directory. An mtime setting was
added to the configuration file and switched on by default (use --no-mtime to
negate this). --rotate and --ext options are deprecated. The FileModifyDate
tag is written when the DateTimeOriginal tag is absent. A software tag with
versions of tools is written to the passed file.


* 0.16.1 *

When a new file name is generated and a file is present on the filesystem with
same name, the last would be lost in previous version. This bug has been
fixed. The spelling in the documentation was corrected.


* 0.16 *

The new template ideology was implemented for image file naming. The user may
choose any configuration of certain parameters set for a generated file name.
A new option was added for setting the mtime file attribute equal to the the
DateTimeOriginal tag or the current timestamp when the last is invalid. The
documentation was expanded and partialy rewritten according to these
enhancements.


* 0.15.1 *

A --work-directory option was added. The output procedure has been rewritten
and more debugging information is posted to stderr instead of stdout. Values
in the configuration file are quoted by single quotes instead of double (due
to special symbol issues such as "@" in email).


* 0.15 *

This release adds caching filenames for the working directory to avoid
processing the processed files (processed files could be rescanned while
processing a large number files in the directory). The ISO tag has been chosen
instead of CameraISO, since not all cameras support the latter.


* 0.14.2 *

First published release.
